feat(SharedCache): Shared Cache for Searchable Encryption (#1476)
aws/aws-database-encryption-sdk-dynamodb: specification/searchable-encryption/search-config.md

The [cacheTTL](../../submodules/MaterialProviders/aws-encryption-sdk-specification/framework/cryptographic-materials-cache.md#time-to-live-ttl)
for how long a beacon key should exist locally before reauthorization.

### Key Store Cache

For a Beacon Key Source a [CMC](../../submodules/MaterialProviders/aws-encryption-sdk-specification/framework/cryptographic-materials-cache.md)
MUST be created.

> For a [Single Key Store](#single-key-store-initialization), either the user provides a cache, or we create a cache that MUST have [Entry Capacity](../../submodules/MaterialProviders/aws-encryption-sdk-specification/framework/cryptographic-materials-cache.md#entry-capacity)

Author: This is how it is created right now. There are no other enforcing "Need" or "ensures" clauses, so I'll remove the caps. Saying something like, "either the user provides a cache, or we create a cache that has Entry Capacity equal to 1"

equal to 1. If the user provides a cache which is not `Shared`, they SHOULD set the [Entry Capacity](../../submodules/MaterialProviders/aws-encryption-sdk-specification/framework/cryptographic-materials-cache.md#entry-capacity)

> of the provided `CacheType` to 1, because the [Single Key Store](#single-key-store-initialization) only ever caches one entry. Even if the user provides an entryCapacity > 1, the [Single Key Store](#single-key-store-initialization) will only cache one entry.

Author: I was trying to put a note here about the comment we discussed about. But I don't think there's anything to enforce here so to avoid confusion, I'm just going to remove it. Thanks for pointing this out.

For a [Multi Key Store](#multi-key-store-initialization), either the user provides a cache, or we create a cache that MUST have [Entry Capacity](../../submodules/MaterialProviders/aws-encryption-sdk-specification/framework/cryptographic-materials-cache.md#entry-capacity)
equal to 1000.

The Key Store Cache MUST be shared across different [Beacon Key Sources](#beacon-key-source) if and only if a `Shared` cache is used.

> In all other cases, the Key Store Cache MUST be bound to the [Beacon Key Source](#beacon-key-source).

Author: I'll remove the caps. Thanks for pointing this out.

> In all other cases, the Key Store Cache MUST be bound to the [Beacon Key Source](#beacon-key-source).

Author: Updated

with an [Expiry Time](../../submodules/MaterialProviders/aws-encryption-sdk-specification/framework/cryptographic-materials-cache.md#expiry-time)
equal to now + configured [cacheTTL](#cachettl).

The Searchable Encryption cache identifier for [Key Store Cache](#key-store-cache)
[Get Cache Entry](../../submodules/MaterialProviders/aws-encryption-sdk-specification/framework/local-cryptographic-materials-cache.md#get-cache-entry)
and the [Key Store Cache](#key-store-cache)
[Put Cache Entry](../../submodules/MaterialProviders/aws-encryption-sdk-specification/framework/local-cryptographic-materials-cache.md#put-cache-entry)

> MUST be the same.

Author: Yes, this does read better. Thanks!

If using a `Shared` cache across multiple [Beacon Key Sources](#beacon-key-source),
different [Beacon Key Sources](#beacon-key-source) having the same `branchKey` can have different TTLs.
In such a case, the expiry time in the cache is set according to the [Beacon Key Source](#beacon-key-source) that populated the cache.
There MUST be a check (cacheEntryWithinLimits) to make sure that for the cache entry found, who's TTL has NOT expired,
`time.now() - cacheEntryCreationTime <= ttlSeconds` is true and
valid for TTL of the [Beacon Key Source](#beacon-key-source) getting the cache entry.

> If this is NOT true, then we MUST treat the cache entry as expired.

Author: Right now its right after the Seachable Encryption Cache Identifier. I'll move it further up.

The `info` MUST be the concatenation of "AWS_DBE_SCAN_BEACON" encoded as UTF8
and the beacon name.
The `expectedLength` MUST be 64 bytes.

## Searchable Encryption Cache Identifier

When accessing the underlying cryptographic materials cache,
Searchable Encryption MUST use the formulas specified in this section
in order to compute the [cache entry identifier](../../submodules/MaterialProviders/aws-encryption-sdk-specification/framework/cryptographic-materials-cache.md#cache-identifier).

### Preliminaries

Each of the cache entry identifier formulas includes serialized information related to the branch key,
as defined in the [Key Provider Info](../../submodules/MaterialProviders/aws-encryption-sdk-specification/framework/structures.md#key-provider-information).

We establish the following definitions for the Cache Entry Identifier formula:

#### Resource Identifier

> A Hex value that indicates if an element is from a Caching_CMM, Hierarchical_Keyring, or some other future resource.

Author: Good catch. Done. Thanks.

| Null Byte              | 1              | `0x00`              |
| Branch Key ID          | Variable       | UTF-8 Encoded Bytes |

As a formula:

```
resource-id = [0x02]
scope-id = [0x03]
logical-key-store-name = UTF8Encode(beaconVersion.keystore.LogicalKeyStoreName)
branch-key-id = UTF8Encode(BranchKeyIdentifier)
NULL_BYTE = [0x00]

ENTRY_ID = SHA384(
    resource-id
    + NULL_BYTE
    + scope-id
    + NULL_BYTE
    + partition-id
    + NULL_BYTE
    + logical-key-store-name
    + NULL_BYTE
    + branch-key-id
)
```

## Shared Cache Considerations

If a user has two or more [beacon versions](#beacon-version-initialization) with:

- Same Partition ID
- Same Logical Key Store Name of the Key Store
- Same Branch Key ID

then they WILL share the cache entries in the `Shared` Cache.

Any keyring that has access to the `Shared` cache MAY be able to use materials
that it MAY or MAY NOT have direct access to.

Users MUST make sure that all of Partition ID, Logical Key Store Name of the Key Store
and Branch Key ID are set to be the same for two [beacon versions](#beacon-version-initialization) if and only they want the keyrings to share

> cache entries.

Author: We cannot ensure this. I'll remove the MUST to make it should (not caps).

Therefore, there are two important parameters that users need to carefully set while providing the shared cache:

### Partition ID

Partition ID is an optional parameter provided to the [Beacon Key Source](#beacon-key-source) input,
which distinguishes Cryptographic Material Providers (i.e: [Beacon Key Sources](#beacon-key-source)) writing to a cache.

- (Default) A a random 16-byte UUID, which makes

>   it unique for every [Beacon Key Source](#beacon-key-source). In this case, two [Beacon Key Sources](#beacon-key-source) (or another Material Provider)

Reviewer: There are a few places where newlines would be nice in the spec.
```suggestion
  it unique for every [Beacon Key Source](#beacon-key-source).
  In this case, two [Beacon Key Sources](#beacon-key-source) (or another Material Provider)
```

>   CANNOT share the same cache entries in the cache.

Reviewer: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2119 do you mean MUST NOT?

Reviewer: I think you mean will not.

Author: Yes I mean WILL NOT. Thanks for pointing out.

- If the Partition ID is set by the user and is the same for two [Beacon Key Sources](#beacon-key-source) (or another Material Provider),
  they CAN share the same cache entries in the cache.
- If the Partition ID is set by the user and is different for two [Beacon Key Sources](#beacon-key-source) (or another Material Provider),
  they CANNOT share the same cache entries in the cache.

### Logical Key Store Name

> > Note: Users MUST NEVER have two different physical Key Stores with the same Logical Key Store Name.

Reviewer: This is not a requirement that we can enforce.
And also, it is... nuanced. They can be the same, provided they can treat the physical stores as the same and ensure uniqueness.
Like a DDB global table. 

```suggestion
> Note: Users should not have two different physical Key Stores with the same Logical Key Store Name.
```

Author: That makes sense. Updated. Thanks.

Logical Key Store Name is set by the user when configuring the Key Store for

> the [beacon versions](#beacon-version-initialization). This is a logical name for the key store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the [beacon versions](#beacon-version-initialization).
This is a logical name for the key store.
```
